# capstone1
ideas for first capstone project

1: Shelter animal population study
   Consider shelter animal populations from the point of view of 
   commodity overstock. Look at consumer selection criteria, overall
   market size (of wanted, not unwanted animals) and other factors.
   The goal is to determine if there are strategies that can be found
   to reduce unwanted animal populations by exploring the relationships
   between those populations and the populations of wanted animals.
   - https://shelteranimalscount.org/data/Explore-the-Data
   - https://www.animalsheltering.org/page/pets-numbers
   - https://www.kaggle.com/c/shelter-animal-outcomes
   - [ need data on wanted pet populations ]

2: Happiness as a function of relationships to various countries
Consider the extent to which proximity to various countries influences
happiness in other countries.  Is it good to live in a country that's near
China, the US, or any other country?  Might also consider trade relationships
between countries or any other data that links countries together to get
an idea of how one population benefits or is hurt by those links.
- https://www.kaggle.com/unsdsn/world-happiness
- http://www.happycounts.org/for-researchers.html
- https://ourworldindata.org/happiness-and-life-satisfaction/
- http://www.worlddatabaseofhappiness.eur.nl
- http://www.oecdbetterlifeindex.org/

3: Pay fairness in Hollywood
Figure out if women are underpaid in Hollywood.  Look at salary data
in relation to gross receipts, the number of lead actors in a given movie,
the movie genre and other data sets that may be available.  

4: Identify peaks and troughs in time series data
The goal is to identify peaks and troughs without the use of arbitrary
measures like sliding windows of fixed size or given length moving
averages.  This is something humans do visually very easily, probably by
looking at white space.

5: Question identification
Solve the stackoverflow problem. When are two questions, though they
may be phrased differently, really the same?
- https://www.ics.uci.edu/~duboisc/stackoverflow/
- https://archive.org/details/stackexchange
- https://ia800500.us.archive.org/22/items/stackexchange/readme.txt
- https://politics.stackexchange.com/questions/21779/does-it-usually-backfire-if-a-presidential-candidate-challenges-an-incumbent-fro (an example of a duplicate question)

6: Bitcoin investigations
The thing about bitcoin is that the blockchain gives you the ability to track individual
entities through the market.  Doing so would be a project in itself, since people are
likely to spread their transactions through multiple accounts, but that data is public
along with the rest of the block chain.  To my knowledge, there is no other publicly
available dataset that provides a similar opportunitiy.

As an example of what one might look at, it's a commonly accepted notion that consolidation
patterns represent distribution and accumulation between so-called weak and strong hands.
Being able to track entities alongside price action might make it possible to evaluate such
a hypothesis.  One might then be able to generalize the result by making a comparison with 
price data from other assets.  

This would be a labor intensive project, as bitcoin is transacted vis-a-vis many currencies
and other digital assets.  One might have to gather data from all of those and adjust 
it to a common standard, then evaluate the result against the transaction narratives extracted
from the blockchain data. But there may be a holy grail available at the end, proving or disproving
beliefs about weak and strong hands and possibly a predictive model.

7: Attitudes towards animal rights and veganism - boundaries of the social contract
Subjectively, it seems that attitudes towards animal rights and veganism
correlate with other cultural factors including wealth, education level and 
political attitudes.  However it's not clear that empathy and compassion in the
general sense correlate with these things.  Instead, it seems that the boundaries
of the social contract in which these qualities (compassion, empathy) are expressed 
is what differs.  

Which begs two questions: What factors determine individual opinions concerning
the boundaries of the social contract? Why?

Hypothesis: "There but for the grace of God go I"
I propose a somewhat Rawlsian approach to the question.  The theory is that the
boundaries of the social contract are ultimately measured in terms of a person's
ability to imagine himself experiencing a different fate.  This theory depends on the
view that the social contract is not a moral ideal but, rather, simply what the name implies,
a contract made by those who are in a position to construct and enforce it.  In this theory, 
it was the explicit racial aspect of slavery in antebellum America that made it persistent 
in the face of a constitution that articulated basic principles that were incompatible
with it.  The racial barrier kept the founders from being able, in a Rawlsian sense, from 
being able to imagine themselves as slaves.  This is in contrast to the majority of ancient
forms of slavery, which had no racial basis.  Since slaves did not have a seat at the 
table, and since the "there but for the grace of God go I" formula did not extend over 
the racial barrier, they were practically excluded from the social contract.

This state of affairs was unsustainable, not because it was immoral but because the racial
barrier on which it dependeds is not very strong.  Over time, racial mixing ensured that
the "there but for the grace of God go I (or my children ..)" formula would have to encorporate
all races into the contract.  

Clearly, the same logic does not apply to animals.  Aside from Kafka, nobody imagines themselves
waking up one day as a cockroach.  

But our task is to predict if that will change.  It should in principle be possible to 
"learn" a boundary that explains the contours of the social contract.  If we wanted to ask, 
for example, if it inevitably includes illegal immigrants, we would have to acquire data that 
allowed us to infer the extent to which people can imagine themselves in that fate.

From this analysis, we should be able to predict the path and extent of future changes
in the social contract.  

For example, is a single payer health care system inevitable?  (Health care being 
acknowledged as a right would be a fundamental alteration of the social contract
in the US, which is still a society very much grounded in libertarian thinking, 
according to which we never have rights to specific outcomes, only to opportunites 
- ie, freedom).  The answer would have to be found in data that allowed us to infer
the extent to which people can imagine themselves being denied any reasonable path
to access to health care.  In such a case, we might predict that they will act to make
it a right, despite any ideological obstacles. 
